Another domain in informatics sciences presents his
importance and success of resolving problems, especially
the ones related to time and complexity.
This is the optimisation techniques of data mining
sciences. The optimisation algorithms are inspired
from the real life and categorized on several domains
like trajectory methods and the evolutionary
methods such as genetic algorithms. These algorithms
are inspired from the Darwinian evolution of
biological populations [12]. However, in the light of
success observed of these methods, the researchers
started to apply it in different domains even in cryptography,
which gave the birth of evolutionary cryptography
in which the researches try to incorporate
the evolutionary methods in cryptographic schemes
in order to enhance the security level of these
cryptosystems as we will see later on.
In this work, we improve the security level of one of
the known homomorphic encryption schemes which
is named the TSZ (To, Safavi-Naini and Zhang) by
combining between obfuscation and encryption of
data by introducing the genetic algorithms. This
paper is organised as follows: we present at first
some related works then we introduce some essential
information and backgrounds in order to get
much better understanding this work. After that we
describe our proposal by presenting the cryptosystem;
then a scenario of the utilisation of this system
in a secure retrieve protocol named PIR protocol
using this arrangement. At the end we discuss his
performance against known attacks by evaluating it
in two steps: first theoretically and then we conduct
a set of experiments and compare the results with
some existing cryptosystems.
The privacy preserving is a broadly known and
sensitive domain, many works are answered on this
matter. In [01], the authors give a general review
about privacy preserving over published data and its
techniques. In [15], the authors propose a composition
bearing a general discussion about privacy
challenges in great user profiling data techniques
using EEXCESS benchmark. In [17], the authors
show a general survey about using data mining
techniques and algorithms in the privacy preserving
domain. The papers introduced in [21] is a state of
the art of privacy preserving data mining in which
the authors present a general thought about privacy
preserving techniques and their focus on the role of
data mining on this theme.
Concerning the homomorphic encryption, many
works are executed in this area. The majority of
homomorphic propositions go to the fact of using
the identity or specific attributes related to the user
in order to ensure the aim of this topic such as in
[02] where the authors give the general presentation
of identity based encryption (IBE), then they proposed
two approaches of IBE scheme based on
fuzzy identity and study his security point in terms
of keys sizes and security proofs. The homomorphic
encryption was applied in several axis of privacy
preserving domain. In access control such as in [25]
the authors proposed a new attribute based encryption
(ABE) scheme for fine-grained access control,
and in [27], where we saw a proposition of a hierarchical
key assignment (HKA) based encryption
scheme for access control in which the. Another
kind of researches interested by studying the homomorphic
schemes like the papers in [13] and [07]
where the authors present their surveys about some
homomorphic encryption by evaluating it in term of
their complexity and security levels.