Orange Is the New Black (often abbreviated to OITNB) is an American comedy-drama series[1][2] created by Jenji Kohan and first released on Netflix on July 11, 2013.[3] The series, produced by Tilted Productions in association with Lionsgate Television, is based on Piper Kerman's memoir, Orange Is the New Black: My Year in a Women's Prison (2010), about her experiences at FCI Danbury.[4] The second season, consisting of 13 episodes, was released on June 6, 2014. The third season, consisting of 13 episodes, premiered on June 11, 2015.[6] On April 15, 2015, the series was renewed for a fourth season, scheduled to premiere in 2016.[7]

Orange is the New Black is Netflix's most watched series. It has received critical acclaim. The series garnered 12 Primetime Emmy Award nominations for its first season, including Outstanding Comedy Series.[9] A new Emmy rule in 2015 forced the series to change categories from comedy to drama.[10] It received four Emmy nominations for its second season, including Outstanding Drama Series, becoming the first series to score nominations in both categories.

The series revolves around Piper Chapman (Taylor Schilling), a woman in her thirties living in New York City, who is sentenced to 15 months in Litchfield Penitentiary, a minimum-security women's federal prison (operated by the "Federal Department of Corrections", a fictionalized version of the Federal Bureau of Prisons) in upstate New York. Piper has been convicted of transporting a suitcase full of drug money for her then girlfriend Alex Vause (Laura Prepon), an international drug smuggler. The offense had occurred 10 years prior to the start of the series, and in that time Piper had moved on to a quiet, law-abiding life among New York's upper middle class, so her sudden and unexpected indictment seriously disrupts her relationships with her fiance, family and friends.

In prison, Piper is reunited with Alex (who named Piper in her trial, resulting in Piper's arrest), and they re-examine their relationship and deal with their fellow prisoners. The show often shows flashbacks of significant events from various inmates and prison guards' pasts. These flashbacks typically explain how the inmate came to be in prison or otherwise further develop the character's backstory. The majority of the characters featured are in prison for non-violent offenses, most of them related to narcotics, fraud and larceny, while some are in prison for organised crime, homicide and aggravated assault charges. Most are from lower- and middle-income backgrounds. The show also depicts corruption and inadequacies of the American prison system and the abuse of power by some correctional officers upon female inmates. As the series has progressed, the focus on Piper as the lead character has lessened and shifted to the ensemble and concurrent plot themes.