For complex applications, we make use of more sophisticated forms of event-based measurement. So in addition to storing method execution metrics, transactional measurement stores context, which makes it possible to examine the methods of different transactions individually. This way we can find out that a specific slow SQL statement is executed only for a specific Web request.Method executions are also stored in their individual chronological order instead of being aggregated based on the call stack, which can reveal dynamic behavior of the processing logic of a transaction &emdash; for example, a servlet request. The isolated examination of individual transactions thus makes it possible to analyze data-dependent problems and outliers.The detailed diagnostics provided by transactional measurement are particularly well-suited for working with distributed applications. There are a number of ways in which cross-tier transactions are correlated:Transaction type based approaches pass a transaction type ID to the next tier and additionally use time based correlation. This provides more details as not only time but also the transaction type is taken into account. Transaction id based correlation passed individual transaction IDs to the next tier. This allows following individual transactions across tiers and is the most precise approach to cross tier correlation.

Game of Thrones roughly follows the storylines set out in A Song of Ice and Fire.[6] Set in the fictional Seven Kingdoms of Westeros, the series chronicles the violent dynastic struggles among the realm's noble families for control of the Iron Throne. As the series opens, additional threats emerge in the icy North and in the eastern continent of Essos.[2] The first season is a faithful adaptation of the novel. Later seasons, however, began to diverge with significant changes. According to David Benioff, the show is "about adapting the series as a whole and following the map George laid out for us and hitting the major milestones, but not necessarily each of the stops along the way."[7]

The novels and their adaptation derive aspects of their settings, characters and plot from various events of European history.[8] A principal inspiration for the novels is the English Wars of the Roses[9] (1455–85) between the houses of Lancaster and York, reflected in Martin's houses of Lannister and Stark. Most of Westeros, with its castles and knightly tournaments, is reminiscent of High Medieval Western Europe. The scheming Cersei, for instance, calls to mind Isabella, the "she-wolf of France" (1295–1358).[8] She and her family, as depicted in Maurice Druon's historical novel series The Accursed Kings, in particular, inspired Martin.[10] Other historical inspirations for elements of the series include Hadrian's Wall (which became Martin's great Wall), the legend of Atlantis (ancient Valyria), Byzantine "Greek fire" ("wildfire"), Icelandic sagas of the Viking Age (the Ironborn) and the Mongol hordes (the Dothraki), as well as elements from the Hundred Years' War (1337–1453) and the Italian Renaissance (c. 1400–1500).[8] The series' great popularity has in part been attributed to Martin's skill at fusing these disparate elements into a seamless whole that appears credible on its own terms as an alternative history.[8]

"The Sopranos in Middle-earth" is the tagline showrunner David Benioff jokingly suggested for Game of Thrones, referring to its intrigue-filled plot and dark tone combined with a fantasy setting that incorporates some magic and dragons.[11] In a 2012 study, the series was listed second out of 40 recent U.S. TV drama series by deaths per episode, with an average of 14.