knew she was a terrible liar. She started to panic. Lucas
grabbed her phone from her and, as he did, Helen heard an
almost imperceptible crunch.
“Her phone’s broken,” Lucas said, passing Helen’s
phone to her father so he could see it. It came apart in
Jerry’s hand. “I came over to see why she wasn’t picking up
and she was out here in the driveway on her way to go get
you.” Helen stared at Lucas with her mouth open,
wondering how someone who demanded honesty from
everyone else could be so quick to lie.
“How did you do this, Len?” Jerry asked in a dismayed
voice as he studied the pulverized sandwich of plastic and
microchips. “This was brand-new.”
“I know!” Helen said a little too emphatically. “Piece of
junk, right? I’m so sorry, Dad. I had no idea you were
coming early. Really.”
“Oh, it’s all right,” Jerry said a bit sheepishly now that he
wasn’t so worried. He and Helen smiled at each other, all
forgiven. Then Jerry turned to Lucas. “You look familiar,” he
said suspiciously, acknowledging Lucas’s presence for the
first time and distrusting it immediately.
For a moment Helen could see Lucas as her father did—
a heartbreakingly beautiful young man who was too well
built, too well dressed, and driving too nice of a car to ever
be liked by anyone’s father.
“Lucas Delos,” he said, holding out his hand.
“Don’t you hate this kid?” Jerry asked Helen candidly as
he shook the offered hand. Lucas laughed, and it was such
an open, unself-conscious sound that Jerry joined in.
“We worked it out,” Helen said.
“Good,” Jerry said. Then he passed Lucas’s flashy
convertible as he went back to the cab to pay and get his
bags. “Or maybe not,” he amended. Helen took that
moment to roll her eyes at Lucas and point to her phone.
“What about that woman? How are you going to tell me
the rest of the story now?” she whispered frantically. “If I use
the phone in the kitchen, my dad will hear.”
“Sorry,” Lucas whispered back, his eyes laughing. “I
couldn’t think of anything else to do.”
“Tomorrow,” Helen warned. “I want the whole story.”
“I’ll pick you up half an hour early for school. We’ll get
coffee,” Lucas promised.
“What’s going on?” Jerry asked suspiciously, joining
them again.
“Lucas has to get home for dinner,” Helen said. She saw
Lucas wince at the lie, but he took the hint.
“It was nice to meet you, Mr. Hamilton,” Lucas said as he
waved good-bye and backpedaled toward his car.
“Damn, I really wish you had acne. Or a gland problem,”
Jerry replied.
“Dad!” Helen huffed, embarrassed. “Good night, Lucas,”
she said apologetically.
“Good night, Helen,” he replied softly, his eyes bright.
“Okay, that’s enough. Get in the house, Helen,” Jerry said
with a nervous smile. He physically turned Helen around
and gave her a little push toward the door. “I think I would
prefer it if you went back to hating him.”
Helen heard Lucas laughing to himself as he started his
car. The warm sound made her smile.
Lucas took his time driving home from Helen’s side of the
island. He needed time to think and get control over himself
before he faced his family. Not that it would do much good.
Cassandra and Jason could always figure out how he was
feeling, and they were being hypervigilant about him right
now. They’d been worried about him since that day in the
hallway when he’d first seen her, and now it would get
worse. It was already worse. Jason would probably try to
get him to sit down for a nice, long talk, and Lucas didn’t
have the patience for that. He didn’t want anyone’s pity; he
just wanted to be left alone for once.
Lucas pulled into the garage and sat with the engine off
for a few minutes, trying to put his feelings back where they
belonged. The past few days he’d felt as if his emotions
were spring-loaded, as though if he let the lid off them
they’d all come flying out like confetti from a Christmas
cracker. He knew for damn sure he couldn’t handle seeing
Cassandra, not right then, and he also knew she was
probably waiting for him. He got out of the car, walked
outside, and flew up to his bedroom window to avoid her.
But of course she knew he would do that, and she was
already sitting on the couch in his room. Lucas smiled
ruefully to himself before he even got his window open. He
should have known better than to try and outmaneuver his
little sister.
“I don’t want to talk about it, Cassie,” he said in what he
hoped was a patient but firm voice.
“You don’t get to make that choice,” Cassandra
responded sadly.
“No. We’re Scions. We don’t get to make many of our
own choices, do we?” he said bitterly as he floated through
the window and came in for a landing.
His body took on the burden of gravity and his feet
touched down as he went from flying to walking in an
instant.
“You’ve been gone a while,” Cassandra said in an
insinuating tone.
“I stayed in her area for a bit, looking around her
neighborhood for any sign of those women,” he said evenly,
and he wasn’t lying.
“I told you, you don’t have to worry. She’s safe for a few
more days at least,” Cassandra said, shaking her head.