Recently, some attribute-based access control schemes [7]–
[9], [15], [16] were proposed to ensure the data confidentiality
in the cloud. It allows data owners to define an access structure
on attributes and encrypt the data under this access structure,
such that data owners can define the attributes that the user
needs to possess in order to decrypt the ciphertext. However,
the policy updating becomes a difficult issue when applying
ABE methods to construct access control schemes, because
once data owner outsource the data into cloud, they won’t store
in local systems. To change the access policies of encrypted
data in the cloud, a trivial method is to let data owners retrieve
the data and re-encrypt it under the new access policy, and then
send it back to the cloud server. But this method will incur a
high communication overhead and heavy computation burden
on data owners.
In [1], the authors proposed a Key-Policy Attribute-Based
Encryption method and discussed on how to change the
policies on keys. In [10], the authors also proposed a ciphertext
delegation method to update the policy of ciphertext. However,
these methods cannot satisfy the completeness requirement,
because they can only delegate key/ciphertext with a new
access policy which is more restrictive than the previous policy.
Furthermore, they cannot satisfy the security requirement
either. For example, when a new attribute is added into a
threshold gate and the threshold gate is changed from (t;n) to a
(t+1;n+1), both of their methods will set the share of the new
attribute to be 0. In this case, users who only holds t attributes
(excluding the new attribute) can satisfy new (t+1;n+1)-gate.
In [16], the ciphertext can be re-encrypted by any valid users
by decrypting it first. Thus, a new outsourced policy updating
method is desired for ABE systems.
In this paper, we have investigated the policy updating problem
in big data access control systems and formulated some
challenging requirements of this problem. We have developed
an efficient method to outsource the policy updating to the
cloud server, which can satisfy all the requirements. We have
also proposed an expressive attribute-based access control
scheme for big data in the cloud, and designed policy updating algorithms for different types of access policies. Furthermore,
we proposed a method which enables data owners to check the
correctness of the ciphertext updating. We also analyzed our
scheme in terms of correctness, completeness, security and
performance. Although the policy updating algorithms were
designed based on Lewko and Waters’ scheme, our ideas and
methods of outsourced policy updating can also be applied to
other ABE systems.