This is the first simile in a poem that is filled with similes, as many as four hundred of them in the three cantiche. Here, in response to the first of them, it is perhaps helpful to observe that 'similes' in Dante are varied, and perhaps fall into three rough categories: 'classical' similes, like this one, perfectly balanced and grammatically correct; 'improper classical' similes, which are similarly balanced but not expressed with grammatical precision; simple comparisons, which are brief and unembellished. There will be more along these lines in response to individual similes and comparisons. For a study in English of the Dantean simile see Richard Lansing, From Image to Idea: A Study of the Simile in Dante's “Commedia” (Ravenna: Longo, 1977); for bibliography, see Madison U. Sowell, “A Bibliography of the Dantean Simile to 1981,” Dante Studies 101 (1983), 167-80.
“Deal,” Kate replied gratefully, and bustled off with a
smile. Helen waited until Kate’s back was turned, lifted the
sack of flour easily on her shoulder, and sauntered toward
the workstation, where she opened the sack and poured
some flour into the smaller plastic container Kate used in
the kitchen. While Helen neatly stacked the rest of the
delivery in the storeroom, Kate poured her a bubbly pink
lemonade, the kind that Helen loved, from France, one of
the many foreign places she was dying to visit.
“It’s not that you’re so freakishly strong for someone so
thin that bothers me. What really pisses me off,” Kate said
as she sliced some cherries and cheese for Helen to snack
on, “is that you never get winded. Not even in this heat.”
“I get winded,” Helen lied.
“You sigh. Big difference.”
“I’ve just got bigger lungs than you.”
“But since you’re taller, you’d need more oxygen,
wouldn’t you?”
They clinked glasses and sipped their lemonade, calling
it even. Kate was a bit shorter and plumper than Helen, but
that didn’t make her either short or fat. Helen always
thought of the word zaftig when she saw Kate, which she
had a notion meant “sexy curvy.” She never used it, though,
in case Kate took it the wrong way.
“Is the book club on tonight?” Helen asked.
“Uh-huh. But I doubt anyone will want to talk about
Kundera,” Kate said with a smirk, jingling the ice cubes in
Kundera,” Kate said with a smirk, jingling the ice cubes in
her glass.
“Why? Hot gossip?”
“Smokin’ hot. This crazy-big family just moved to the
island.”
“The place in ’Sconset?” Helen asked. At Kate’s nod,
she rolled her eyes.
“Oh-ho! Too good to dish with the rest of us?” Kate
teased, flicking the condensed water from the side of her
glass in Helen’s direction.
Helen play-shrieked, and then had to leave Kate for a
moment to ring up a few customers. As soon as she
finished the transactions, she came back and continued the
conversation.
“No. I just don’t think it’s that strange for a big family to
buy a big property. Especially if they’re going to live in it
year-round. It makes more sense than some old wealthy
couple buying a summer home that’s so huge they get lost
on the way to the mailbox.”
“True,” Kate conceded. “But I really thought you’d be
more interested in the Delos family. You’ll be graduating
with a few of them.”
Helen stood there as Delos ran around her head. The
name meant nothing to her. How could it? But some echoey
part of her brain kept repeating “Delos” over and over.
“Lennie? Where’d you go?” Kate asked. She was
interrupted by the first members of the book club coming
early, wound up and already in the throes of wild
speculation.
