The one thing Helen could confidently gather from all the
chatter was that the Delos family was rather unconventional.
There were two fathers who were brothers, their younger
sister, one mother (one of the fathers was a widower), and
five kids, all living together on the property. The entire family
was supposed to be unbelievably smart and beautiful and
wealthy. Helen rolled her eyes when she heard the parts of
the gossip that elevated the Delos family to mythic
proportions. In fact, she could barely stand it.
Helen tried to stay behind the register and ignore the
excited whispering, but it was impossible. Every time she
heard one of the members of the Delos family mentioned
by name, it drew her attention as if it had been shouted,
irritating her. She left the register and went over to the
magazine rack, straightening the shelves just to give her
hands something to do.
As she wiped down the shelves and stocked the candy
jars, she mentally ticked the kids off in her head. Hector is a
year older than Jason and Ariadne, who are twins. Lucas
and Cassandra are brother and sister, cousins to the
other three.
She changed the water for the flowers and rang up a few
customers. Hector won’t be there the first day of school
because he’s still in Spain with his aunt Pandora, though
no one in town knows why.
Helen pulled on a pair of shoulder-length rubber gloves
and a long apron, and dug through the garbage for stray
recycling items. Lucas, Jason, and Ariadne are all going
to be in my grade. So I’m surrounded. Cassandra is the
youngest. She’s a freshman, and only fourteen.
She went to the kitchen and put a load in the industrial
dishwasher. She mopped the floors and started counting
the money. Lucas is such a stupid name. It’s all wrong. It
sticks out like a sore thumb.
“Lennie?”
“What! Dad! Can’t you see I’m counting?” Helen said,
slamming her hands down on the counter so hard she
made a stack of quarters jump. Jerry held up his hands in a
placating gesture.
“It’s the first day of school tomorrow,” he reminded her in
his most reasonable voice.
“I know,” she responded blankly, still unaccountably
irritable but trying not to take it out on her father.
“It’s almost eleven, honey,” he said. Kate came out from
the back to check on the noise.
“You’re still here? I’m really sorry, Jerry,” she said,
looking perplexed. “Helen, I told you to lock the front and go
home at nine.”
They both stared at Helen, who had arranged every bill
and every coin in neat stacks.
“I got sidetracked,” Helen said lamely.
After sharing a worried glance with Jerry, Kate took over
counting the change and sent them home. Still in a daze,
Helen gave Kate a kiss good-bye and tried to figure out
how she had missed out on the last three hours of her life.
Jerry put Helen’s bike on the back of the Pig and started
the engine without a word. He glanced over at her a few
times as they drove home, but he didn’t say anything until
they parked in the driveway.
“Did you eat?” he asked softly, raising his eyebrows.
“I don’t… yes?” Helen had no idea what or when she’d
last eaten. She vaguely remembered Kate cutting her some
cherries.
“Are you nervous about the first day of school? Junior
year’s a big one.”
“I guess I must be,” she said absentmindedly. Jerry
glanced over at her and bit his lower lip. He exhaled before
speaking.
“I’ve been thinking maybe you should talk to Dr.
Cunningham about those phobia pills. You know, the kind
for people who have a hard time in crowds? Agoraphobia!
That’s what it’s called,” he burst out, remembering. “Do you
think that could help you?”