was orchestrating dinner, and she spun around to look at
Helen.
“I didn’t think you’d be joining us,” the woman said with a
startled face. “I’m so glad.”
“Thank you. And thank you again for the stuff you sent my
father and me,” Helen said. She knew immediately that this
was Noel Delos, and she could also tell that Noel was a
normal woman without an ounce of demigod strength. A
big, bubbling pot of guilt boiled over in Helen’s chest. She
had threatened this fragile human in a family of superheroes—
threatened her to her son and her nephews, no
less. Noel smiled knowingly at Helen’s penitent face.
“You’re very welcome. Now, first things first. How do I
contact your father to let him know you’re okay?”
“I’d rather keep my dad out of this,” Helen replied
nervously.
“You’ve been gone all night and all day. Don’t you think
he’ll be worried?”
“He’s in Boston for the weekend. He won’t be back until
tomorrow night.”
“All right, it’s up to you, but I want you to know I think it
would be better if you and your father had a long talk about
all this,” Noel said with piercing eyes. Then she whirled
around and got busy with dinner. Helen had the feeling that
she may have been granted a stay of execution, but she
wasn’t pardoned yet. “Are you ready to eat now?” Noel
asked, buzzing around.
“I don’t think I’ve ever been this hungry,” Helen replied
truthfully.
“It’s the heal,” Noel said, smiling at some internal thought
as she laid down bread, salt, and oil in front of Helen. She
poured a tall glass of milk before gesturing impatiently.
“Eat. This isn’t the time to be shy, Helen. You need it.”
Helen ripped into the bread like a medieval glutton with
low blood sugar. Noel smiled again and asked Hector to go
get some hard cheese out of the fridge. He grudgingly did
as he was told. As he put the cheese down he made a joke
about being scared to get his fingers too close to Helen’s
mouth.
“You’re one to talk,” Pandora grumbled. “Just two weeks
ago I had to count the silverware after every meal to make
sure you hadn’t swallowed any of it.”
“You were healing two weeks ago?” Helen asked, and
then remembered that Hector and Pandora had arrived
later than the rest of the family.
So much had happened in just a few weeks that Helen
felt like every day had telescoped out into a week in itself.
As she marveled at how much her life had changed, she
noticed that a silence had fallen over the kitchen.
Apparently, Helen had stumbled on to a touchy subject
because everyone was exchanging nervous glances over
her head.
“Sorry. I don’t mean to intrude,” Helen amended quickly.
“No, it’s fine. It’s just that Hector’s recent heal is part of
something much bigger,” Noel said. “Right now, you eat.”
At first she felt the lingering reticence of a new guest, but
as soon as the lentil stew was put down in front of her,
Helen’s whole being was lost in a flavor blur. She was
vaguely aware of other people pulling up chairs or standing
around by the stove while they tasted this or that, got
themselves a plate, or just hung out to talk, but she was far
too focused on the ever-changing dishes in front of her to
pick individuals out of the crowd. Noel kept the food
coming. A few times, Helen was aware of Cassandra
shuttling trays up and down the stairs, but it didn’t sink in
that those were for Lucas until Helen was falling asleep
over something sweet and nutty made out of dough.
“Ready for ice cream?” Noel asked her, absentmindedly
pushing a thick swath of Helen’s long hair behind her
shoulder so it didn’t fall into her food.
“I think I’ve gone blind,” Helen replied, unable to chew or
swallow or see straight anymore.
“Finally,” Noel sighed as she sank into a chair across the
table from Helen. She looked as tired as Helen felt.
“Jason? Do you think you could take her up?”
“Sure,” Jason replied, and scooped Helen out of her
chair. She was suddenly very awake.
“I can walk! Really, you don’t have to carry me,” she said,
squirming in his arms.
“Sure you can. Now hold still or I’ll drop you,” he replied
with a good-natured smile. She had no choice but to relax
and let him carry her.
When they got upstairs, Cassandra came through one of
the many doors, holding a tray stacked to overflowing with
dirty dishes, and Helen got a brief glimpse of Lucas lying in
bed. She tensed and tried to crane her head around
Jason’s shoulders to get a better look, but Cassandra shut
the door.