join the battle. By then, we would’ve wiped out the soldiers who are inside the fort.’
‘Outside the fort,’ corrected Ashwapati, pointing towards Karachapa.
Raavan had, strangely, abandoned the immense advantage of being safe within the
walls of the well-designed fort. Instead of lining them up along the ramparts, he had
chosen to arrange his army of probably fifty thousand soldiers in a standard formation
outside the city, on the beach.
‘It is the strangest tactic I have ever seen,’ said Ashwapati warily. ‘Why is he giving
up his strategic advantage? With the fort walls being right behind his army, he does not
even have room to retreat. Why has Raavan done this?’
Dashrath sniggered. ‘Because he is a reactionary idiot. He wants to prove a point to
me. Well, I will make the final point when I dig my sword into his heart.’
Ashwapati turned his head towards the fort walls again as he surveyed Raavan’s
soldiers. Even from this distance he could see Raavan, wearing his hideous horned
helmet, leading his troops from the front.
Ashwapati cast a look at his own army. The soldiers were roaring loudly, hurling
obscenities at their enemy, as warriors are wont to do before the commencement of war.
He turned his gaze to Raavan’s army once again. In sharp contrast, they emanated no
sound. There was no movement either. They stood quietly in rigid formation, a brilliant
tribute to soldierly discipline.
A shiver ran down Ashwapati’s spine.
He couldn’t get it out of his mind that those soldiers were bait that Dashrath had
chosen to take.
If you are a fish charging at bait, then it usually doesn’t end well.
Ashwapati turned towards Dashrath to voice his fears, but the emperor of the Sapt
Sindhu had already ridden away as the soldiers suddenly dropped their swords, bent, and picked up unnaturally long
spears, almost twenty feet in length, that had been hitherto lying at their feet. Made of
wood and metal, the spears were so heavy that it took two soldiers to pick each one up.
The soldiers pointed these spears, tipped with sharp copper heads, directly at
Dashrath’s oncoming cavalry. The pointed heads tore into the unprepared horses and
their mounted soldiers. Even as the charge of Dashrath’s cavalry was halted in its tracks
and the mounted soldiers thrown forward as their horses suddenly collapsed under them,
Lankan archers emerged, high on the walls of the Karachapa fort. They shot a continuous
stream of arrows in a long arc from the fort ramparts, right into the dense formation of
Dashrath’s troops at the back, ripping through the Sapt Sindhu lines.
Many of Dashrath’s warriors, who had been flung off their impaled horses, broke into
a fierce hand-to-hand battle with their enemies. Their liege Dashrath led the way as he
swung his sword ferociously, killing all who dared to come in his path. But the
Ayodhyan king was alive to the devastation being wrought upon his fellow soldiers who
rapidly fell under the barrage of Lankan arrows and superbly-trained swordsmen.
Dashrath ordered his flag bearer, who was beside him, to raise the flag as a signal for
the Sapt Sindhu soldiers at the back to also break into a charge immediately and support
the first line.
But things continued to deteriorate.