This is a disaster!
A panic-stricken Ashwapati rounded up his bravest mounted soldiers and raced across
the battlefield on horseback. He negotiated his way through the clutter of bodies to
quickly reach the kill zone right outside Karachapa fort, where Dashrath lay, probably
seriously injured, if not dead.
Ashwapati knew the war had been lost. Vast numbers of the Sapt Sindhu soldiers were
being massacred before his very eyes. All he wanted now was to save Emperor
Dashrath, who was also his son-in-law. His Kaikeyi would not be widowed.
They rode hard through the battle zone, even as they held their shields high to protect
themselves from the unrelenting barrage of arrows raining down from the Karachapa
walls.
‘There!’ screamed a soldier.
Ashwapati saw Dashrath’s motionless form wedged between the corpses of two
soldiers. His son-in-law lay there firmly clutching his sword. The king of Kekaya leapt
off his horse even as two soldiers rushed forward to offer him protection. Ashwapati
dragged Dashrath towards his own horse, lifted him, and laid the emperor’s severely
injured body across the saddle. He then jumped astride and rode off towards the field of
thorny bushes even as his soldiers struggled to keep up with him.
Kaikeyi stood resolute in her chariot near the clearing along the line of bushes, her
demeanour admirably calm. As her father’s horse drew near, she reached across and
dragged Dashrath’s prone body into the chariot. She didn’t turn to look at her father, who
had also been pierced by many arrows. She picked up the reins and whipped the four
horses tethered to her chariot.
‘Hyaah!’ screamed Kaikeyi, as she charged into the bushes. Thorns tore mercilessly
into the sides of the horses, ripping skin and even some flesh off the hapless animals. But
Kaikeyi only kept whipping them harder and harder. Bloodied and tired, the horses soon
broke through to the other side, onto clear land.
Kaikeyi finally pulled the reins and looked back. Riding furiously on the other side of
the field of thorns, her father and his bodyguards were being chased by a group of
mounted soldiers from Raavan’s army. Kaikeyi understood immediately what her father
was trying to do. He was leading Raavan’s soldiers away from her.
The sun had nearly reached its zenith now. It was close to midday.
Kaikeyi cursed. Damn you, Lord Surya! How could you allow this to happen to your
most fervent devotee?
She kneeled beside her unconscious husband, ripped off a large piece of her
angvastram, and tied it firmly around a deep wound on his chest, which was losing
blood at an alarming rate. Having staunched the blood flow somewhat, she stood and
picked up the reins. She desperately wanted to cry but this was not the time. She had to
save her husband first. She needed her wits about her.
She looked at the horses. Blood was pouring down their sides in torrents, and specks
of flesh hung limply where the skin had been ripped off. They were panting frantically,
exhausted by the effort of having pulled the chariot through the dense field of thorns. But